- [Instructor] Most Java developers love
the Spring framework.
And it provides a few components
for interacting with APIs.
Here's an example of some code
that uses one of those components, the RestTemplate.
The RestTemplate was used for years to make calls to APIs,
so you might encounter it
in preexisting code that uses Spring.
However, in Spring 5, the framework developers
placed the RestTemplate into maintenance mode
and they recommended that we use a new class
called the WebClient going forward.
Working with the WebClient gives us a major advantage
because it supports several interaction styles with APIs.
It supports synchronous, asynchronous,
and streaming interactions.
It's most common to encounter synchronous calls
that block the execution of a thread
while the client waits for a response
after making an API call.
In the asynchronous approach,
the thread is able to execute other code
while waiting for a response from the API.
We saw this in action when we were working
with Azure Cognitive Services.
When using the streaming approach,
the client makes the initial request to the API,
which is followed by multiple responses from the API.
This technique is frequently used
to stream real-time data like stock market quotes
or posts from a social media platform.
That's why Twitter's streaming API
is perfect for our course project.
The new WebClient is built to support
each of these approaches and to make better use
of resources like threads.
As Spring recommends, you should only be using
the WebClient going forward
and not using the RestTemplate.
So that's a high-level look
at how we call APIs with Spring
and a little bit deeper of a dive on the WebClient.
Next, we're going to take a look
at how to use the WebClient
for each of these interaction styles for calling APIs.